Hallelujah, Amen. Nice to meet you in the Lord.
Yes, I
am Pastor Moon Dae-won who serves Daegu Dongshin Church. I am
grateful to be able to worship and preach together at Bundang Woori Church, which God loves. I thank
God and
Pastor Lee Chan-soo who gave me this precious opportunity.
I served as a mentor for the Dream Beyond Dream Project in the Gyeongsang
region. I am deeply grateful to the members of Bundang Woori Church who prayed for and supported the future self-reliant churches in the Gyeongsang region. The
Dream Beyond Dream Project is
not a one-time event but continuous
cooperation and network.
For the pastors of the 17 churches selected this time, a seminar was held at our church.
Pastor Lee Chan-seon
came all the way to Daegu to give valuable lectures and
mentoring. There are a
total of eight people selected in the Daegu region, and we are
meeting regularly to fellowship and
pray together. We are not only providing financial support,
but also preparing a ministry to cooperate for evangelism and training Sunday
school.
One of the churches is a rural church in Uiseong, Gyeongbuk.
Our church youth will
visit this summer to serve in the summer Bible school ministry and help
the elderly.  I am preparing to serve.
I cannot express how grateful I am that such a precious work has begun through the support and love of our church in Bundang. I believe that God is pleased with your love and service that goes
beyond my visible church and looks upon the entire Korean church and the entire kingdom of God.
Amen. Before I began my ministry in Daegu, I
served as a missionary in Africa. I served in Burundi, Africa,
for six years.
Before that, I
studied theology in Boston, USA, for seven years. I
am a missionary scholar who majored in world Christian history and also a
former missionary in Africa. I am now
serving as a pastor at Daegu Dongshin Church, a church dedicated to missions, with a very happy heart.
Our church is a
church that belongs to the same united denomination as you, and we serve
through the World Mission Society, the first incorporated church in the denomination.
With 75 missionaries and 99 cooperating missionaries, we are
witnessing the gospel of Christ in many countries around the world.
British theologian William Temple
said this. He said that the church is the only community in the world that
exists for the benefit of others, not just its own members.
All
communities in the world exist for the benefit of their members.
Governments, corporations, and schools all
exist for the benefit of their own members. For
example:  Enter Bundang-gu Office, it works for the benefit of Bundang-gu,
not for the benefit of others. However,
the church is different from the organizations of this world. The
church exists to help people who are not its members
gain life. In
other
words, the church exists for evangelism and missions
. Therefore, a
church that does not evangelize and do missions
has lost its purpose of existence. A
church that has lost its purpose of existence,
no matter how large or splendid, will quickly decline and
sink.
Just as God has a purpose for the church,
God has a purpose for us Christians.
We were not born into this world by chance. I believe that we were
sent by God for a clear purpose and mission.
Our purpose is not just to eat well and
live well. We are called to
live for the eternal kingdom of God. There is an
inexpressible joy for those who realize that eternal purpose.
Today, let's think about that joy
together. The
main text, Philippians, is
widely known as a letter of joy. The
joyful heart of the apostle Paul is well
expressed throughout Philippians. The word "
rejoice" appears several times in this short letter. The
most representative verse in Philippians is chapter 4, verse 4.
Rejoice in the Lord always.
I will say it again: Rejoice.  He is
saying that there
is something good going on. It seems like he
has a lot of money, or his children are doing well,
or the church is
growing amazingly, or the Roman emperor has
accepted Jesus. But that
is not the case. Paul is now imprisoned in a Roman prison. A
person who has done nothing wrong is being unjustly imprisoned. The
greatest elite of the time, who had Roman citizenship, is being imprisoned.
Nevertheless, the apostle Paul's heart is
filled with joy. Can you understand this?
Those who aim to do well and succeed in the world will
not be able to understand Paul's heart. Paul
confesses why he is rejoicing. Let
's read Philippians 1:18 together.
What then? Christ is being preached in every way, whether by false pretense or in truth.
And in this I rejoice, yes, I am
rejoicing. Amen. Paul confesses. Whether
I am in prison or not, it
doesn't matter. Christ is being preached. And
in this I rejoice, yes, I am
rejoicing." This
verse very clearly shows the purpose of Paul's life.
The purpose of Paul's life was to preach Christ.
Because he achieved that purpose,
Paul says he rejoices and is rejoicing. The
joy that Paul felt in the Roman prison is the purpose of life.  It
was a joy that was achieved. When you
watch the Korean Series in professional baseball, you see players who do their best for the team's victory.
There are players who sacrifice bunts and hit sacrifice flies to score even one more point. In the Korean Series, they
never play the game. They
sacrifice themselves for the team's victory.
So sometimes, you
see a player who
hits a sacrifice fly and is so happy. If he had hit a sacrifice fly, he would have been out.
From an individual's perspective, there's
nothing to be happy about. But because of that play, a
runner on base
came in. That's how our team got one point.
I hit a sacrifice fly and I
was out, but our team got one point.
If the team could win, that player would have hit a sacrifice fly and been
so happy. That's because the
player's purpose is not to do well as an individual,
but for the team to win.
Even though I was out, I'm
so happy because I contributed to the team's victory. The same goes for
Paul, who was happy in a Roman prison
because he achieved his purpose.
Paul's purpose was not to live comfortably and comfortably.
His purpose
was to spread Christ. Even though he
was in prison, Paul could be truly happy because the gospel of Christ was being spread. The
joy that filled Philippi was the joy of achieving his life's purpose. It
was worth risking everything.  It
was a joy to find value and achieve it. There are
several characteristics of people who have a clear purpose in life.
Today's text shows them well.
First, a clear
purpose determines the direction of life.
Paul confesses that he runs toward a clear goal and in a clear
formation.
Let's read Philippians 3:14 together. I
press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
Amen. Paul is using the image of an ancient Olympic athlete. He says that he is running hard toward the goal
like an athlete sprinting toward the finish line.
That goal is the
prize of the upward call of God. He is running vigorously while looking forward to the prize that
God will give him in heaven.
It may be difficult right now, but he is
running patiently while looking forward to the crown that God has prepared. A person with
one goal has faith in God. If I have
faith that I am going in the right direction, I
can endure even if it is difficult right now.
Even if I fall or fail, I
can get up again.
Everyone experiences failure as they live their lives.
No matter how good a
university you go to or how good a company you enter,
everyone experiences failure.
Therefore, the important thing is
not to avoid failure, but to do it.
This is
called resilience. You should not be discouraged by the adversities of life,
but you
should be able to step up and use them as a springboard for a leap forward.
People who have achieved great things were not those who did not experience adversity, but
those who overcame adversity. So how
can we get back up when we fail? You should know that
you are going in the right direction.
Where does that god
come from? It comes from an unchanging goal.
So a person with a clear goal
has confidence in the direction, and if you
have confidence in the direction, you will gain the strength to get back up even after failure.
There is one characteristic that appears in people who do not have a clear goal. It is that they keep comparing themselves to others.
My friend is still working, but he hasn't gotten a job yet. Oh, my
friend's annual salary is this much, but this is all I
can see. Why do we live our lives
comparing ourselves to others? It is
because we are not sure about the direction of our lives. It is because we lack the
confidence that we are going in the right direction. If we are
not sure about the direction, we will constantly compare ourselves to others.
At the beginning of every new year,
there is one thing I tell the members of our church. It is a story told by Christian psychologist Jordan
Peterson.
Do not compare yourself to others, but only to the you of yesterday.  I
told you to compare. It is
meaningless to compare my life with others. It is meaningless to
simply compare myself with others because our beginnings are different, our strengths are different, and our goals are different. If there is
someone I should compare myself with,
it
is my past self. It is meaningless to compare
our church with other churches to see how much I have grown compared to a year ago.
If there is someone our church should compare itself with,
it is our church a year
ago. We should look back and see if we love the Lord more than we did a year ago. If we look
back and see if we are witnessing the gospel more diligently than we did a year ago. All
of this is possible only when we have a clear goal.
That is why the Bible says that it is not wise to run without a goal.
Lets read 1 Corinthians 9:26 together. Therefore, I do not try to do something
without a direction, but I
fight like I am beating the air. There are
times when I do not have a clear goal. There are times when I am working hard but
going in the opposite direction of my goal. If you
think about it, there is nothing more meaningless than this
. It is
not important to run hard. It is not important to do your best and
work passionately.
What is much more important is whether you
are going in the right direction.
So where does the right direction
come from?
Direction
is the right goal. Therefore, the most
important thing in life is to have the right goal
. Of course, each person's life goal
may be different. Some people's
goal may be to become a great doctor,
while others' goal may be to build a beautiful family.
Some people's goal may be to buy a nice apartment in Seoul.
When discussing goals in life, there is one thing we must remember. There
are high-level goals and low-level goals.
Not all goals are the same. There are high-level
goals and low-level goals. The
following diagram will
help you understand. Low-level
goals are very specific and realistic.
For example, I
will wake up at 7 am tomorrow. Why
should I wake up at 7 am? To achieve the intermediate goal of going to work on time.
Then why
should I go to work at the same time? To
become a responsible person. Then why
should I become a responsible person?
Because then I can have a greater influence in my promotion.
In this way, every time we ask why,
we
think about higher and higher-level goals. If we
do not ask why, we will
stay at the lower-
level goals. What is the most common low-level goal? It is
to make a living. What you say
can be the answer to all questions. Why
should I wake up at 7 am? To make a
living.  Why do we have to go to work on time to make a
living? Why should we
be responsible? To make a living
To make a living is the most common
goal, but it is
not a high-level goal. Since it is not a high-level goal, it
does not motivate us enough. People who work to make a living
do not have the motivation to work harder today than yesterday. They just have to
work moderately and receive their paycheck.
Asking why is very important in our lives.
When we ask why,
we think about higher-level goals.
When we ask why, we can discover the highest goal of our life.
Your highest goal is an
end in itself and an
unchanging purpose. Every
Christian has a very clear highest
goal.
It is in the Westminster Shorter Catechism, question 1. I will
read the question and you
can read the answer. What is the chief end of man? Man's chief
end is to glorify God and
enjoy him forever. Amen.
Our chief end is to
glorify God and enjoy him in the spirit.
In order to achieve this goal,
we set intermediate goals and also
set lower-level goals. Why do we
have to go to work on time
to glorify God? Why
should we be responsible?
To glorify God To make a living  Do people who go to work on time and
people who go to work on time to glorify God have the same attitude when they work
in the same department and do the same work?
No.
People who have the best goal that never changes
have a stronger motivation than anyone else. They have enough reasons to get up again even if they fail.
This
is the life that runs toward the nose. The apostle Paul ran
unwaveringly toward the eternal formation. He continued toward the prize of the calling that
God has called from above. The
right goal determines the right direction. If we
have the right direction, we
can run with God. I believe that people who have God have the strength of mind to overcome
any adversity they encounter in life. The
second right
purpose is to set priorities in life.
It is too much to prioritize different things in life. A wise person is someone who
discerns what is important and
focuses on that important thing. On the other hand, a
foolish person is busy with
various things because he cannot discern what is important. Because his
mind is divided and angry, he misses the
really important things. Let's
listen to a student studying for an exam. A
student who is good at studying knows which part is important well,
so he studies that part diligently. A student who is
not good at studying does not
know which part is important. He
tries to study everything from the beginning to the end.  Because of that, only the mind
becomes busy and you
can't study properly. If the priorities are
not clear, there are times when you are working hard on something
but miss the important thing.
That's why the Apostle Paul emphasizes how important it is to focus on one thing.
Let's read Philippians 3:13 together. Brothers,
I am still in hiding.
Forgetting what is on the present and trying to do what is on the future.
In the Greek passage, there is an emphasized
word. It
is only a Korean word. If you
look at it in English, it is emphasized. He
was not a person who looked at the branches. He was a person who said, "I have
one thing," and he worked hard for it. He
looked at the clear prize and moved forward with one
mind.
The Bible contrasts a person with one mind
and a person with
two minds. Let's read it together.
In
James 1:8, we can see what a
person with two minds is like. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. In English, it says, "
is able-minded man
unstable in all his
ways."
If you have two minds, you live an unstable life. His
mind is unstable in everything he does.
Because he has not fixed his mind on one place, he goes back and
forth. A double-minded man  A
person who is calculating constantly lives his life thinking, Is
this
beneficial to me? Is that
beneficial to me? It breaks my heart to
see such calculating people.
Our church
has many young people, so there are times when I preach to the youth about marriage.
I
advise the youth about marriage. I
say that marriage is not a business. I tell them
not to think about marriage too calculatingly or too realistically.
When we decide who we will spend the rest of our lives with, we
should not calculate too much about who will be beneficial to me. This is
because marriage is a personal union,
so it cannot be approached in a business manner. If you
try to make the most of your marriage, it
cannot be a happy marriage. The Bible
tells us not to be double-minded. A double-minded person
is an unfaithful and unstable person. I believe that when we move forward with one mind and single focus, we
will live a life that God will be pleased with. Paul, who only moved forward with one mind,
says this. He confesses that he
forgets what is behind and
reaches forward to what is ahead. When we
look around, there are cases where the past is more important than the present. They
say, Oh, I used to do this kind of thing. Our church used to be good. They
feel proud of the past.
Of course, we  God is
just and
remembers everything we have done. He will
repay us according to what we have done, both on earth and
in heaven.
However, Paul says that he
forgets what is behind him. He confesses that
he goes forward with faith and wholeheartedly toward what is ahead.
He was a man who
knew exactly what was really important in life. He knew that
it was more important to move forward than to boast about the past. There is
an incident that showed how important it is to run toward the future. In
1954, the
World Athletics Championships
were held in Vancouver, Canada. At that time, it is said that no
athlete ran the 1600m in under 4 minutes. In the
1600m mile,
one was Roger Bannister from Britain and the
other was John Landy from Australia.
Both athletes had good records, so it seemed that
one of them would break the 4-minute mark.
That's how the 1600m final
began, and John Landy took the lead from the beginning.
After the middle of the race, he
led the race until the end. However,
just before the finish line, Randy...  I
wondered where Livery Venice was. I saw the finish line ahead, so I
turned my head and looked to the left.
At that very moment,
Venice charged forward.
While the athlete in front looked back, the
athlete behind him charged forward. At that very
moment, there was a famous photo.
This photo is it. In the end, Venice
came in first and he became the first athlete in the world to
run a mile in under 3 minutes. This
historic race is
called the Miracle Mile. It is
amazing that he set a record, but it shows how dangerous it is to turn your head during a race.
Since then, track and field
athletes have been trained to never turn your head and
run only looking at the finish line until the very end.
If you have a clear goal in life, you will have a clear priority. If you
have a clear priority, you will have a
specific action plan.
Based on that priority, you will know
what to do this week and what to do today.
Of course, if you do that today,
your life will not suddenly change. It is the
same as exercising hard today and not building muscles. However, by doing that, you will
take one step closer to the goal you are looking for.
Erst Newman, the greatest music critic of the 20th century,
said this. Great composers do
not start composing after being inspired, but they do it after a long time.  They
said that they start composing at the same time and then get inspired.
Great composers like Beethoven and Bach
did not waste time waiting for inspiration.
They
wrote songs at the same time every day with their hearts set on it, and their efforts
accumulated to create great works.
Great composers
started their songs at the same time
every day and then got inspired.
Do you work hard at the same time every day? Do you
pray every day? Do you exercise every day? Do you work
hard some days and skip some days?
Oh, its raining today, so skip.
Oh, its too cold today, so skip. Oh, Im
not feeling well today. If we
live irregularly like this, we
cannot bear any fruit in our lives. I
hope you live faithfully every day with clear goals and priorities. In the name of the Lord, I pray.
Amen. Third, the right purpose
determines the right ethics. Ethics
are the standards of right and wrong. In order to make the right choices in life, you
need a standard. That
standard must be consistent and unchanging.
There are several proverbs in our country that are not biblical. One of
them is, No matter which way you go, as long as you get
to Seoul, you will be fine. It doesnt
matter which way you go, as long as you get to the destination, you
will be fine. It doesnt matter the means or the method, as long as you
achieve the goal.
Your words are biblical.
No, achieving the goal is also  It is
important, but it is also important to use the right means. A
goal achieved through the wrong means cannot be justified.
Then
why did the saying
come about that no matter what you do, you just have to go to Seoul? It is because the goal is an impersonal
goal. For
impersonal goals such as making a lot of money, becoming successful, and so on, no
means or methods are needed. If you
used shortcuts to achieve quick success, who would say anything? Oh, if you
did something illegal to make a lot of money, who would
say anything? I think you can
use any means and methods as long as you are not caught by other people.
However, if the goal
is personal, the story is
different. For example, you cannot
use shortcuts and luck to become a
good father. It does not make sense to say, Be a good father regardless of the means and methods.
In order to become a good father, you must build relationships in the right way. You must
understand your childs heart
and treat him or her with love and respect. Only when you build such
personal relationships
can you achieve your personal goals.
It is the same. If the goal of our lives
is to glorify God, we
cannot use any method.
I believe that we must use the means and methods that God is pleased with. We
must choose the right method according to Gods standards, and
only by doing so can we achieve our goals.
For example, giving missionary donations is a
good thing, but  You
must earn money in a legitimate way. God is not pleased with people who
earn a lot of money through shortcuts and luck and earn a lot of money from the Bible.
God is
just and rejoices in walking the right way.
Apostle Paul
confessed this at the last moment of his life.
Lets read 2 Timothy 4:7-8 together. I have fought the good fight, I have
finished the race, I have
kept the faith. Henceforth there is
laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the
righteous judge, will receive and which will
not only be given to me but also to all who have loved his appearing.
Amen. Paul
believed in the just God and made Him the goal of his life. He
ran toward a personal goal, not an impersonal goal.
That is why he did not go just any way, but
followed the path of faith, the good way.
Lee also fought the fight of faith with the same mind and
in order to finish the race, he must hold on to a personal goal. He must not
go out without considering the method, but
must walk the path that God is pleased with.
Pastor Lim is always praying for the congregation. Pastor
Lee Chan-soo will
also always
pray for you. He will pray for you to
pass through and succeed in Gods time and in Gods way.
The Bible does not speak of asceticism. It
does not regard money or success as evil.
However, it is dangerous to succeed in a human way
without regard for the means and methods. I
believe that only success in a way that pleases God is a true blessing. It is important to achieve life's goals,
but it is
even more important to go the right way according to God's standards.
Because God
sees all the motivations of our hearts,
sees the process, and judges us.
When we finish our lives on this earth, we will meet God.
Choosing an honest way before the God who will meet us at the finish line of life is
Christian ethics.
How you view the end of the world not only determines your life's
goals, but also determines the
meaning and ethics of life.
American theologian Stanley
Worth
said this: Ethics is
correlated with telos, or the end. Depending on how a person views the end of the world,
that is, whether or not he or she views the end not as the last breath of the world
but
as the purpose, goal, and result,
the world changes completely.
How you
view the end of the world determines the meaning and ethics of life.
People in the world think that death is the end.
So they think that eating well and
living well on this earth is the best.
For that, they
do not care about the means and methods. However,
death is not the end for Christians. They believe that
there is eternal heaven after death.
I believe that God our King,
God our Father,
will welcome us. The end of life is
not death but heaven. Therefore, I believe that we must
remember the God we will meet in the midst of this and
live faithfully before God.
Our goal is
not an impersonal goal but a personal goal.
The God who is waiting at the finish line of life
is the goal of our life.
God changes forever, so
our goal will
not change forever. I believe that those who have that eternal goal have a joy that
no one can understand and no one
can take away. The
right purpose determines the right direction. The
right purpose
determines the right priorities. The right purpose determines the
right ethics. The
right purpose determines the right ethics.
Those who have an eternal purpose gain the strength to live today.
This is the advice of the Apostle Paul.
Let's read Philippians 3:16 together. Wherever you have come, you
will do it. Amen. I pray in the name of the Lord that you will all
keep the eternal purpose in your hearts and
move forward with God in joy. I
pray in the name of the Lord that you will live faithfully before the Lord today and this week as you look upon the God who
is waiting for us at the finish line of life.
Amen.
Let's sing praises together. There is no regret in
God's
calling. The
fact that I am standing here is the Lord's calling.
God's  There is
no mistake in calling. I
believe in the truthfulness of God who called me.
The reason why He called me, the little me. I
do not know it, but I
will go on the Lord's path with gratitude and obedience. Sometimes, sometimes,
I become
weak. The Lord
lets me go. [Music] I
believe in His amazing example and live. He seems to call me. He
seems to call me. It is
bigger than I thought and has a plan for me.
With my wisdom and my heart, I
cannot do it. But He leads me to the best
way, the most perfect
way.
Today, too, He leads me. There
is no regret in God's calling. The fact that I am standing here is because of the Lord's calling.
There can never be a mistake in God's calling. The
faithfulness of God who called me. The
reason why He called me, the little me. I
do not know it, but I
will go on the Lord's path with gratitude and obedience. Sometimes,
sometimes, I become
weak. The Lord helps me.
[Music] The reason why He helps me. The
Lord's amazing example and repentance. I believe in His amazing example and
live.
The reason why He called me is bigger
than I thought and has an
example for me. With my wisdom, I
cannot do it. But He leads me to the best
way, the most perfect way. The reason why He called me is bigger than I thought and has a plan for me. With my wisdom, I cannot do it. But He leads me to the best way, the most perfect way. The
reason why He called me is
proven by my wisdom.
Even though we cannot, let us go forward together in prayer today and every day, in the best
way, in the most perfect
way. Please let us
look to God's good will and calling toward us. Please let us move forward with faith,
looking only toward the greatness of heaven with one heart. Please let us live a
life that glorifies God with the right direction, the right priorities, and the right ethics.
Let us pray together at this time.
God, please let us go without any worries
[music] Let
us
be brief. Let us
see the one who sees, the one who sees, the one who receives, the one who sees, the one who receives, the Lord's will, the place where all power can become our faith.
[music]
[applause]
Faithful God, thank you
for guiding our lives according to your good will and plan.
Thank you for calling us, who are small and weak, and using us for the eternal kingdom of God. I want to remember the faith of Paul, who lived his whole life looking toward the greatness with one heart. Please
grant us the same faith so that we do not have two hearts, but
love only the Lord with one heart.
Please remember that the right purpose determines the right direction, the right priorities, and the right ethics, and let us
run for the prize of the calling that God has called us to.  We do
not aim to be successful and prosperous on earth, but we only
want to live a life that glorifies God. As we are able to do this,
please grant us the fullness of the Holy Spirit every day so that we can
walk in the path that pleases God.
Please remember the prayers of many saints who pray for this country and people, and let this country quickly regain stability and
peace. Please
grant our beloved children and the next generation a faith that fears God, and let them develop the gifts and talents they have received from the Lord and
work for God's kingdom.
We thank you for carrying out the beautiful history of the Korean church through our church in Bundang. Please carry out the work of the Holy Spirit so that
weak churches can come alive and flourish as the Dream Dream Project is carried out all over the country.
Please let the Korean church
be spiritually renewed once again so that it can
be preciously used for world missions.
[Music]
We pray in the name of Jesus, whom we hope for. Amen.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the infinite love of God the Father, the
inspiration, inspiration, comfort, and communication of the Holy Spirit, and the work of
awakening spiritual sleep, for
all the saints of our church in Bundang who pledge to live for God's eternal purpose, and to
spread the gospel all over the world.
For the missionaries, from now until eternity,
let us be together. Amen, amen.